
WHAT I CHANGED
==============

I have been a Windows user for most of my life. A few years ago I bought
a small netbook and running Windows on it was so slow, I decided to have a go
at Ubuntu to see how it fared. Truth is, it fared very well and I had never
seen the machine run so quick. I even took that netbook with me in New Zealand.

I have to say I gradually came to like it more and more. The command-line world
was quite new for me, used to the double click and drap world of Windows. The
dark screen terminal was intimidating at first, especially when you type all
those weird looking commands for the first time, but now I feel right at home.
Being able to execute complex commands and repeat them by writing little
scripts and chaining them is so powerful, I don't know how I ever managed
a filesystem before without it.

I also switched from Komodo Edit as my main IDE to vim. The change was drastic.
Going to any classic IDE to vim is far more scary than moving from Windows to
Ubuntu. Commands are even weirder on vim than on the terminal, but once again,
the fact that you could script anything and chain them and make vim really your
own appeals to me. Sure it took me a lot of hours to learn to use the basics of
vim and be confortable enough to script something with it, but it was worth it.

I won't go into any flaming war on which editor is the best. Whichever suits
you best and make you write cleaner code and faster is the right choice. You
should just try other editors once in a while or see what your coworkers are
doing. I worked with  eclipse people, vim people, TextMate
people, and it was vim that I liked the most. A great editor can really help
you in writing better code and doing it faster.
